If you lease a car versus just buying it
you usually put less money down when you get the car.
I want you to think of leasing a car like renting it
and the rental time lasts for three to five years.
So why do it?
Why lease a car?
Because you might not have enough money on hand
to buy the car.
Or because there might be tax benefits
depending on where you live
to getting a lease instead of buying a car.
And you might also not want to
have your balance sheets debt divided by equity
get worse as the amount of outstanding debt
that you have increase when you get a loan, of course.
You can also
a lot of companies,
like if you start your own company like I have,
you can actually get tax benefits to leasing.
Every regions different, look into it.
And just remember in exercise eight
calle analyzing your bs times seven,
when we created and calculated our debt to equity ratio.
Remember that?
We did debt divided by equity.
This debt to equity ratio is basically the same thing
as liabilities over your net worth.
If you get that big car loan
and the ratio of your liabilities divided by your net worth
will go up which means that you might not be able to
get a mortgage or other loans if needed.
And so a few years ago Kristy and I bought a house.
And the mortgage company would not approve the mortgage
until I paid off the loan on my car.
So that my debt to equity ratio improved.
And it wasn't a big loan either.
It was pretty small.
And you might
you might not plan to drive the car much
if you live close to where you work.
And so leases actually limits
the amount of kilometers or miles
you can drive your car annually.
And then you get charged if you go above
that kilometer or mile limit
by 25 cents per mile or kilometer for example.
If you choose to buy the car after you lease it
usually cost you a lot more though.
And so I recommend buying used cars only.
As you can often save 30% right away on the cost of the car.
Never buy cars brand new.
You can check out the history of a used vehicle here
at this website here.
Hire mechanics, look at the car before you buy a used car.
Yes, this is expensive for one hour, right.
But it really is worth it
because if you buy a lemon of a car,
meaning a car there's been a bunch of issues with it,
it's really gonna hurt you in the long run.
And you can also go to carfax.com to check that the car
that you're buying is not a lemon.
And cars also have vin numbers.
VIN, which mean vehicle identification numbers
that you can check out to see if a car has been
in an accident or not.
So I want you to think of a cars VIN
as being like a cars credit rating
or a cars social security number,
or government ID number.
And every car manufacturer since 1981
has a 17 digit VIN number.
So I actually recommend looking up yours today
because you can tell if there's been a safety recall as well
on your car by entering you VIN
at this website right here.
So for much more information on your VIN
you can also go to this website here.
Great.
Another way to explain a lease versus a loan
is if you wanted to get a loan to buy an Iphone
and then you decided, wait a second here,
no I don't want to get a loan because
if I buy my Iphone than my
debt divided by equity will go up.
And I want to get a new Iphone every year anyway
so I will just sign up for the new Iphone upgrade program.
Where I can get a new Iphone, the newest model, every year.
That's kinda like a lease.
That's probably a good way to think about it.
And a lot of people think of cars like this.
They want to get a new car every three years or so.
And so what they do is they lease the car for three years
and then the car dealer gives them a good deal
if they get a new car to lease
at the end of that three year period.
Again new cars are a bad investment
as they depreciate by about 30%
the second you drive them off the lot.
And companies actually lease photocopy machines,
so that their debt to equity ratio,
the companies debt to equity ratio
does not get worse.
And so that they don't tie up that much of their money
by buying these machines.
And so when you lease anything
just always ask about additional fees.
Like other annual maintenance fees, etc.
And if you get a loan for a car that you're buying
you could pay off the loan any time.
And you can sell it if you wanted to.
Unlike with a lease, you must return it.
And if you buy your car, I recommend paying it off
entirely if you can, instead of taking a loan.
If you can.
We want that debt that you take on to be
for the purchase of a house.
I want you to save debt for your house
which is probably the best investment
most people will ever make.
Thanks.